MOSCOW, Aug. 5 - Wild and peat fires continued to spread in Russia Thursday, after the flames destroyed military facilities and caused the government to remove nuclear material from a threatened reactor.

The nuclear material was evacuated from the Sarov nuclear site in Nizhny Novgorod region, the BBC reports. At Sarov, founded after World War II, the Russian nuclear weapons program was developed, and the site is still an important nuclear research center. The radioactive material was removed in a precautionary measure due to fires creeping toward the site but officials said that Sarov hasn't been damaged. Moscow has sent additional troops to Sarov to protect it.

For a naval military base southeast of Moscow, help came too late.

Russian authorities confirmed that a fire at a base in Kolomna destroyed several barracks as well as warehouses containing aeronautical equipment and vehicles, Defensenews.com reports.

Russian tabloid news Web site Life News first reported the fire at Kolomna, claiming the base was destroyed, with 200 planes burned and losses estimated to reach $670 million.

The fires destroyed residential houses, consumed farmland and left at least 2,000 people homeless, causing Russian President Dmitry Medvedev to declare a state of emergency. The death toll Thursday rose to 50, officials said Thursday.

"A dead body was found as the houses burned down late last week were cleared in the Nizhny Novgorod region," a representative for Russia's Emergency Ministry was quoted as saying by Russian news agency ITAR-TASS. "A patient died in a hospital in the Voronezh Region, thus the death toll has reached 50."

"No more houses were burned over the past day," the representative added.

Latest News on your Inbox go to  alagukanthavel.blogspot.com

However, the fires keep spreading.

There were at least 589 fires raging on Thursday at a spread of 196,000 hectares, up from 529 fires Tuesday and 460 fires Monday.

The Kremlin has dispatched nearly 200,000 emergency workers and dozens of planes to fight the fires but it's proving an uphill battle due to strong winds and the hottest summer since temperature recording began 130 years ago.

The regions of Nizhny Novgorod, Voronezh and Ryazan have been worst hit. In Moscow, people were encouraged to wear gauze masks because of the smoke that has clouded the capital for days.

Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin over the weekend stopped his summer vacation to fly into the crisis region, promising locals that their burned-down villages would be rebuilt before the winter.

Yet the Kremlin won't be able to replace the crops that have been consumed by the fire. Around one-fifth of Russia's expected grain harvest has been destroyed. Moscow Thursday said it might issue an export ban on Russian wheat that could come into effect as early as next week, sending prices on international markets through the roof.

In a bid to improve the reaction to future fires, Medvedev this week ordered Emergency Minister Sergei Shoigu to draw up a special program to boost the firefighting service, including increasing the number of vehicles and airplanes to move firefighters around.