MOSCOW - Hundreds of thousands of firefighters reinforced with army troops on Saturday battled forest fires sweeping across central Russia, burning down villages and claiming some 30 lives.

With more than 120 hectares (about 300,000 acres) in flames, 238,000 firefighters were deployed in 14 regions, along with 25,000 vehicles and 226 aircraft, the emergency situations ministry said.

Russian President Dmitry Medvedev called the fires "a natural disaster," in televised comments on receiving a report from Defence Minister Anatoly Serdyukov with some 2,000 troops joining efforts to tackle the blazes.

"Unfortunately the forces of the emergency ministry, its regional capabilities, are not sufficient because this is really a natural disaster that happens probably only once every 30 or 40 years," Medvedev said.

The emergency situations ministry gave a death toll of 28, including seven in the Moscow region.

However, three more bodies were found Saturday in burnt-out houses in the Nizhny Novgorod region, that region¡¯s emergency ministry told the Interfax news agency, raising the number of deaths reported to 31, including three firemen, according to local counts.

The fires triggered by one of the country¡¯s worst heatwaves have devastated the regions in the centre and the Volga river basin, to the east and southeast of Moscow.

In the village of Maslovka outside Vorenzh, 600 kilometres (370 miles) southeast of Moscow, a resident stood outside the remains of her charred home.

"It burned down in just one minute, we only had time to save the children," said the woman.

Only five of Maslovka¡¯s 150 homes had been spared by the fire, which arrived swiftly and silently, villagers said.

Temperatures were forecast to hit 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit) over the next few days in affected regions, with the emergency ministry warning of an "extreme risk" of more forest fires.

Still, the ministry said it had the situation under control.

"Despite the unpromising weather forecast, the task force we have created and preventive measures we have taken, as well as the active use of emergency ministry aircraft allow us to control the situation," it said in a statement.

Authorities have promised quick compensation, and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin pledged that all homes would be rebuilt by the end of October.

Finance minister Alexei Kudrin said the cost of rebuilding and compensating victims could be higher than the five billion rubles (165 million dollars) pledged by Putin on Friday, the ITAR-TASS news agency reported.

"So far the damage is estimated at five billion rubles. This will be sent to certain regions to provide housing, financial compensation for the victims¡¯ loss of property," Kudrin said. "But probably the costs will be higher."

In the Moscow region, a television report showed residents of the village of Mokhovoye, where six people died in fires and several others were missing, sifting through the ashes of their houses.

"I had a good insulated garage, a banya, a cellar. What can I say? It has all burnt down," a middle-aged male resident told NTV television, as thick white smoke hung over a wasteland of burnt tree stumps and brick foundations.

The Russian Orthodox Church Patriarch Kirill said the promised financial aid must reach the victims of the fires, calling it "sacred money", and not be pilfered, an apparent allusion to problems of corruption in the handling of public funds in Russia.

"So that they (funds) reach the people, it is very important that those who are handling the transfer at all levels do it with the utmost responsibility," he said in a speech broadcast on public television.

In churches in the Voronej region, prayers will be chanted in the coming days for "the blessing of rainfall", the local Orthodox church told Interfax.