Russian President Dmitry Medvedev fired senior navy officers for ¡°criminal negligence¡± in the destruction of a base near Moscow by wildfires that have killed 48 people across the country to date.

The aviation supply base near Kolomna, 100 kilometers (62 miles) southwest of Moscow, burned on July 29, destroying the headquarters, 13 warehouses and 17 parking lots with vehicles, according to the Investigative Committee of the Prosecutor General¡¯s Office.

The officers in charge of the base ¡°failed to perform their duties¡± when ¡°a fire that was spreading rather slowly wasn¡¯t contained, and the base leadership were nowhere to be found,¡± Medvedev said at a government meeting in Moscow today.

Firefighters are battling 520 blazes that cover 188,525 hectares (728 square miles), according to the Emergency Situations Ministry. Since the start of the fire season, 667,460 hectares have burned and more than 170,000 emergency personnel have been deployed, the ministry said.

Record heat and drought continue to plague central Russia, making it impossible for emergency crews to prevent hundreds of new blazes daily.

¡°The weather gives us no chance,¡± said Vladimir Stepanov, head of the Emergency Situations Ministry¡¯s crisis center in Moscow. ¡°The forecast for the next few days is unfavorable, so we¡¯re continuing to deploy more personnel,¡± he said today in comments on the ministry¡¯s website.

Nuclear Facility

Sergei Kiriyenko, head of Rosatom Corp., Russia¡¯s nuclear power company, said fires raging near Sarov in the Nizhny Novgorod region pose no threat to a federal nuclear center located there, Interfax reported. All radioactive materials have been removed from the facility, the news service reported.

The state Hydrometeorological Center forecasts ¡°high¡± or ¡°extreme¡± fire danger in western and central Russia, the Ural Mountains and parts of western Siberia through at least Aug. 6. Temperatures in most parts of central Russia will be 8 degrees Celsius above average through Aug. 12, rising as high as 42 degrees Celsius (108 degrees Fahrenheit), the center said.

Moscow, like many cities in central Russia, was blanketed in a smoke haze from peat-bog and forest fires outside the city today, causing some early morning delays at Domodedovo airport, southeast of the capital.

Gennady Onishchenko, the country¡¯s public health chief, advised Russians to stay indoors as much as possible and to wear masks when they venture out, since the smoke today is ¡°far worse¡± than yesterday, Interfax reported.

Threat to Crops

Russia¡¯s worst drought in at least 50 years, which already drove wheat prices to the biggest jump since 1973, will continue in August and threaten more crops and winter-grain sowings, according to the Hydrometeorological Center. Rainfall last month in central Russia and along the Volga River was 10 percent to 30 percent of the long-term average, the center said.

Agriculture accounts for 3 percent to 4 percent of Russia¡¯s gross domestic product, according to Moscow-based VTB Capital.

Heat and drought forced the government to declare a state of emergency in 27 crop-producing regions. Medvedev declared a fire-related state of emergency in seven regions, mobilizing the army to help battle the flames.

At least eight regions hit by the drought are experiencing water-supply problems, Rossiiskaya Gazeta reported. The Oka River, a tributary of the Volga, is 30-40 centimeters below ¡°dangerous¡± levels. Navigation problems have been reported on the Volga since June, the government¡¯s newspaper of record said. 