The devastating flooding in Pakistan could affect more people than the world's last three biggest disasters combined, the UN said yesterday.

The bleak warning came as Pakistan was threatened by further devastation as a key flood barrier looked set to fail.

Waters have exceeded the danger level at the barrier in Pakistan's southern province of Sindh, leaving the region facing the possibility of floods on the same scale as the devastation suffered in the north.

Another monsoon flood would devastate the country which is struggling to cope in the aftermath of the initial disaster, which killed at least 1600 people.

The intense flooding that began about two weeks ago has washed away roads, bridges and many communication lines, hampering rescue efforts.

The UN said the final toll could exceed the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, the 2005 Kashmir earthquake and the 2010 Haiti earthquake combined.

Deaths in each of those were much higher than the 1600 people killed so far in the floods.

But the Pakistani government estimates that more than 13million people have been affected - two million more than the other disasters.

The number of people affected in the three other major recent disasters is five million in the tsunami and three million in each of the earthquakes.

A spokesman for the UN Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Affairs said: "It looks like the number of people affected in this crisis is higher than the Haiti earthquake, the tsunami or the Pakistan earthquake.

"If the toll is as high as the one given by the government, it's higher than the three of them combined."

Many of the people affected by the floods, caused by extremely heavy monsoon rains, were in Pakistan's north-western province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.

Experts now fear the Sukkur Barrage overflow problem means Sindh faces as much devastation as that seen further north in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Punjab provinces.

The water flow coming down the barrage was recorded at up to 1.4million cubic feet per second yesterday - it can only withstand 900,000 cubic feet per second.

Upper Sindh is already under water, and rescuers are continuing to evacuate thousands of families from the province, where the banks of the swollen Indus river are at risk of bursting.

Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani said the country had gone back years and with the monsoon rains refusing to relent, it faces a battle to recover.

Enraged survivors have been physically attacking government officials in flood-hit areas, amid widespread anger at the pace of the relief effort.

Locals have accused the authorities of failing to come to their rescue, with President Asif Ali Zardari, who pressed ahead with a trip to Europe, singled out for particular criticism.

Rescue workers have been unable to reach up to 600,000 people marooned in the province's Swat Valley, where many were still trying to recover from an intense battle between the army and the Taliban last spring.

Bad weather has prevented helicopters from flying to the area, which is inaccessible by ground.

The UN spokesman added: "All these people are in very serious need of assistance and we are very concerned about their situation."

The UN special envoy for the disaster, Jean-Maurice Ripert, said that Pakistan will need billions more from international donors to recover from the floods.