Pakistani flood survivor girl eats food, at a camp in Sukkur, Pakistan on Sunday, Aug. 22, 2010. The world has given or pledged more than $800 million to help Pakistan cope with massive floods, the foreign minister said Sunday, as a surging river in the south led authorities to urge thousands more people to evacuate.

Help is on the way from the Northwest to flood-ravaged Pakistan, but it's not nearly enough help, according to Pakinstanis living in the Northwest.

One doctor has launched a mission to get more people to pay attention to the devastation. (View photos >>>)

"It's the biggest devastation in the history of the country," said Dr. Saad Rahman.

Rahman, a doctor at Swedish Medical Center in Seattle, decided he could no longer sit and watch. He plans to fly to his horribly-flooded home country next week to lend medical assistance so desperately needed in Pakistan.

But even next week doesn't seem soon enough for Rahman.

"It's frustrating. I wish I was there," he said. "Being a physician, I think I can help."

But he and many other Pakistanis in the Northwest wonder why relief and help from the U.S. is taking so long, especially since Pakistan has been on the front lines in the U.S. battle to track down terrorists.

"We still get a bad rap that Pakistan is on the wrong side, and I think it does not help. And people are reluctant to give," said Rahman.

At Joint Base Lewis-McChord, military help is en route. A pair of C-17s left on Monday for North Carolina to pick up helicopters that will be squeezed into the payload area. They're being flown to Afghanistan for relief missions into neighboring Pakistan.

"Mother Nature is changing the environment over there. Helicopters have an incredible ability to get into certain locations that other aircraft might not be able to get into," said Lt. Col. Eric Moritz.

Rahman and his friends are busy planning fundraisers, and organizing possible shipments of food to Pakistan. Since the flooding has been going on for weeks, disease, dysentery, starvation are all growing problems.

"Cholera, other water-borne diseases, hepatitis A -- all of these are going to start devastating the people," Rahman said.

They are all issues with which some of his own family members will need to cope as their homes were flooded by 8 feet of water, and much of what they own have been ruined.

One flood-relief fundraiser is set for this Friday night in SeaTac. Several organizations are accepting donations, including Mercy Corps, World Vision and the American Red Cross.