Over one million Pakistanis have fled their homes in the week, as the unprecedented floods, continue to sweep south. Though the food waters recede in the north, malnutrition and starvation continues to bite.

A historic city in the country¡¯s south has gone under, officials said water had breached the river¡¯s defences close to Thatta and had also flooded a second canal that feeds from the Indus.

Most of the 200,000-strong population of Thatta, 75 miles south-east of Karachi, had already left the city, camping out by the sides of roads or trying to move to cities out of the flood zone. Hundreds of families were taking shelter in an ancient Muslim graveyard.

This latest evacuation meant nearly 1 million people had left their homes in just 48 hours in the south earlier this week.

Newspapers in Britain reported With so many needing help and so little relief reaching the southern parts of Sindh province, scores of people blocked a road in Thatta to demand more assistance as their children were starving. They complained that the scant supplies available were usually thrown from the backs of trucks, resulting in crowds of people fighting among themselves for food and water and food riots meaning only the strong were getting enough to eat.

Meanwhile in the North the army has moved in to reinforce government orders to shut down the well run and disciplined food camps set up by charities with alleged links to what the Pakistani Government and their western allies consider to be extremists, whose quick and organised efforts humiliated the Pakistani Army and Government.

This is taking place now, the heartless soldiers are arresting and beating those who are only helping their brothers and sisters in Islam. Even though for untold thousands of people, this aid is the only thing preventing starvation for them and their families.

The Government warned of severe punishments, ¡°The banned organizations are not allowed to visit flood-hit areas,¡± Interior Minister Rehman Malik told Reuters. ¡°We will arrest members of banned organizations collecting funds and will try them under the Anti-Terrorism Act.¡±

Just going to show the rich and powerful elite of Pakistan would rather people die than get help from sincere Muslims whilst at the same time many rich landowners and feudal farmers have been accused of deliberately breaching flooding defences, causing the deaths of many as villages and towns were unexpectedly flooded to pretend their own cash crops from the flood waters but causing the destruction of everything these poor people own.

As the Military is forcing out the Islamic aid workers, Muslim charities from the UK have not been banned from working in the area and we would urge all our readers to give all they can to Ummah Welfare Trust which is a well-respected Islamic charity working all over the world.

Link to Ummah Welfare Trust Flood Appeal

We also ask all our readers to continue to make du¡¯a for the people of Pakistan, that Allah removes this affliction from them, and the cause of this affliction, that he causes the people of Pakistan to return to the deen of Islam and leave corruption, ameen, so this punishment does not occur again, ameen, that they leave support for the secularists and return to support of the Mujahideen, ameen.