It¡¯s been months since the devastating floods in Pakistan resulted in more than 1700 losing their lives, millions becoming homeless without means to earn a living and millions of dollars of damage to lands, equipment and property. The government¡¯s incompetence or inability to effectively deal with this crisis has contributed towards the conjectures and speculations about the demise of the present setup itself.

People wade through flooded streets in Charsadda, Pakistan

Political tug of war between the executive and judiciary branches aside, the only entities that have been able to provide any real and significant relief to those affected, have been the voluntary and civilian non-governmental organizations (NGOs). There is some truth in the assertion that some of these NGOs act as fronts for sociopolitical players who use them for public relations purposes and for promoting their own agendas. Nevertheless, the government is overplaying these notions, accusing the NGOs of exploiting the situation, exaggerating the damage estimates and getting in the way.

The attitude and approach of the government, by and large, seems to be paying lip service instead of taking into confidence all the stakeholders including the opposition parties, uniting the nation for the cause and setting a clear course of action. This has unveiled more than just the ineffectiveness of those currently in power.

First of all, it reminds us of the inequities, hypocrisies and double standards that have permeated and planted themselves in the society for sometime now. The poor are not only the weakest but they are the ones who get affected the most by incidents of political target-killings, terrorism and any other social disruptions such as the current crisis. Many of them, as part of their daily struggle to survive, don¡¯t get to enjoy clean drinking water and now, ironically, the merciless waves of water have depleted whatever little money and assets they had.

The bitter reality is that even before the floods struck, their lives had been in the generational shackles of illiterate but rich and therefore powerful agricultural farm-lords who dictate what these ¡°peasants¡± can and can¡¯t do. This has been the ¡°silent emergency¡± that has been in effect but ignored and unnoticed by the well-off socialites and the ruling class elite almost from the beginning. These miseries are not even lurking under the surface. They have been in plain sight for long but the rest of the society has, one way or another, adopted a See no evil, Hear no evil attitude.