Millions of Pakistanis have been affected by the floods (Photo: Getty)

It was one of the worst journeys of my life: seven hours spent driving into Kashmir along a bumpy, single-track road, hugging the side of the mountains before descending to cross bridges made of rickety planks.  In my ignorance, I expressed amazement that the earthquake of October 2005 had done such damage, and that the only road into this part of the disaster area was still in such a shoddy state of repair. ＆This has nothing to do with the quake,＊ came the response. ＆The road＊s construction was under government contract.＊

This is the key to understanding why the floods in northern Pakistan are having such a devastating effect. One of the main reasons why it is so easy for militants to gain a foothold in the country is that across large areas, the state is almost a vestigial presence. Even where it is not, it is deeply corrupt. The poor quality of official construction, for example, meant that half of the police in Azad Kashmir died in their barracks during the 2005 earthquake, as government buildings 每 and the government＊s presence 每 simply collapsed. That included the schools, one reason why 20,000-25,000 students died too.

The statistics can be horrifying. As of spring 2006, the health budget in Poonch, one of the main districts of Kashmir, was 20p per inhabitant per year. At the time, Pakistan spent less than one per cent of its GDP on healthcare. 35 per cent of the population earn less than $1 a day. And given the demographics, the country＊s inadequate infrastructure could have to cope with 200 million extra people by 2050, from a current population of 166 million.

Of course, private institutions are doing what they can. I visited the country with the Graham Layton Trust, which raises funds for the Layton Rahmatulla Benevolent Trust, a wonderful charity that runs a series of free eye hospitals, to which people will walk for miles around (one of their doctors had climbed over the mountains after the quake to offer care to the isolated village at the end of my seven-hour drive). LRBT can carry out a cataract operation for around ㏒15, a fiftieth of what it would cost on the NHS 每 and given that Pakistan has a million-plus curably blind people, they would greatly appreciate any help you can give.

Natural disasters, of course, attract attention and compassion 每 witness the Disasters Emergency Committee＊s appeal over the flooding, which deserves every support. Yet it is easy, amid all the stories of terrorism and disaster, to forget the broader problems.

Pakistan＊s politics are distorted by the military, which dominates the economy, and the factional feuding of clans such as the Bhuttos/Zardaris. Stir in the terrorist threat, and you have a recipe for disaster. Pakistan is a wonderful place, with wonderful people. They deserve far, far better than the leaders they have got.