SOCCER CITY, JOHANNESBURG¡ª Four rounds of elimination came down to 90 minutes of nerve-wracking football as the renowned 2010 FIFA World Cup finished with Spain winning over Netherlands in the championship match on July 11, 2010. After 116 minutes of a score drought game, Spain finally managed to get a ball into the net with a shot by Andres Iniesta, declaring Spain as the 2010 FIFA World Cup champions.

Prior to the match against Netherlands, Spain had not won a single World Cup title, although having triumphed twice in the European Championship finals. The Netherlands, on the other hand, were thirsty for a World Cup win, having falling short of a total of three times during the World Cup finals in history. Whether Netherlands or Spain won, a first-time champion would be crowned both ways.

Taken from http://fuckyeahworldcup.tumblr.com

The game started with both sides frantically fighting for an early lead on their opponent yet no one seemed to be able to find the back of the net.

In the 4th minute, Spanish footballer, Sergio Ramos, took Spain¡¯s first big chance and powerfully headed a free kick by his teammate, Xavi Creus, which propelled the ball pass Dutch defenders, however it was deflected by Dutch Goalkeeper Maarten Stekelenburg. A great opportunity was set up for Netherlands¡¯ Joris Mathijsen in the 36th minute although he was unable to finish the play. Just before halftime, Dutch striker, Arjen Robben, ripped out a fast shot on target which was saved by Spanish goalkeeper, Iker Casillas.

The steady goalkeeping of Netherlands¡¯ Stekenlenburg and Spain¡¯s Castillas kept the game at a virtual standstill.

In the 61st minute, Robben got Netherlands¡¯ hopes up as he went on a scintillating lone run down the field and fired a shot on goal which was unfortunately, deftly deflected by a vigilant Casillas. Johnny Heitinga¡¯s failed attempt to clear the ball in the 69th minute gave Spanish star, David Villa, a clear chance at a goal, but Heitinga¡¯s extended foot was just enough to rebound the ball just over the bar. Crafty footwork by Spanish midfielder, Cesc Fabregas, in the 94th minute gave him a clear shot with only the Netherlands goalkeeper stopping the goal attempt.

In extra time and the 116th minute of the game, Fabregas passed the ball to Iniesta, who took a few steps and fired the ball pass Stekelenburg and into the net. Unable to score an equalizer, Netherlands lost the game thus declaring Spain as the winner of the 2010 FIFA World Cup.

Throughout the game, nervousness was a defining factor in both teams. Golden opportunities were hastily wasted due to shaky shot attempts. Overall, the Netherlands¡¯ playing style was generally on the dirty side, having received many yellow cards throughout the game and eventually receiving a red card during extra time. Spain¡¯s true-to-sport and smooth playing style was what won them the 2010 World Cup.