Pop singer and paedophile Michael Jackson, has died at the age of 46. The entertainer died in his private apartment near the Santa Maria courthouse at 2137 local time (0337 GMT) on Saturday, surrounded by his closest family members.

Jackson had suffered worsening health problems including a heart condition.
The Pop Singer then received the rites for the sick and dying.

Michael Jackson died after suffering from heart and kidney problems and unstable blood pressure.

Minutes after his death, his family issued a brief statement to confirm the news, adding that procedures to be carried out in the event of the death of the Pop Singer had been set in motion.

Jackson had been faced with allegations of child abuse. But during this time he had grown very ill.

The Pop Singer's death was immediately announced to the fans gathered around the apartment he was staying in.

The news was met with long applause, an American sign of joy, followed by several minutes of silence as the crowd took in the news.

"Jackson has had a hard, terrible life, may he rest in peace," a family member said

Jackson's condition deteriorated suddenly on Thursday night with a high fever caused by an infection of the urinary tract.

He had been suffering from breathing troubles, exacerbated by the progress of Parkinson's Disease, an incurable condition from which he had been suffering for nearly a decade.

He was resuming with his trial on Sunday morning in the Santa Maria courthouse, but was sent out after being unable to speak.

Doctors said Jackson was full of anxiety. He was guilty, and he caught high fever, he had poor breathing, and his kidneys were failing him. He couldn't eat with his mouth anymore, and required a nasal feeding tube in order to eat. Just when the Judge allowed the Jury to use past allegations against Jackson, they abandoned it, in the event of Jackson's death.

Michael Jackson was born in 1959, grew up entertaining, and became rich. However he took dangerous cosmetics, resulting in ugly facical looks, and has abused children on multiple instances.

It is unknown who Jackson's fortune will be passed too, though he has already lost the majority of it. It's believed his Neverland Ranch will be demolished, to eliminate the horrific memory of the child abuse.

Make Dark Prime's day - give this story five thumbs-up (there's no need to register, the thumbs are just down there!)
