Michael Jackson died after he was given ''lethal levels'' of the anaesthetic Propofol, according to a search warrant affidavit unsealed in a Houston court yesterday (24.08.09).

Michael Jackson's death was homicide.

The Los Angeles County coroner's report found the 'King of Pop' died of a cardiac arrest on June 25 caused by a cocktail of drugs - including lethal levels of the powerful anaesthetic Propofol - he had been administered to help him sleep.

The findings were unveiled in a Houston court yesterday (24.08.09), when a search warrant for Michael's personal physician Dr. Conrad Murray was unsealed by officials investigating the case.

The warrant read: "The Los Angeles Chief Medical Examiner-Coroner, Dr. Sathyavagiswaran, indicated that he had reviewed the preliminary toxicology results and his preliminary assessment of Jackson's cause of death was due to lethal levels of Propofol (Diprivan)."

The official coroner's report remains sealed at the request of the Los Angeles Police department.

The finding increases the chances criminal charges will be filed against Murray, who was with Michael when he died.

The Jackson family is happy with the homicide ruling, and "look forward" to justice being served.

A statement released by the family said: "The Jackson family has full confidence in the legal process, and commends the ongoing efforts of the Los Angeles County Coroner, the Los Angeles District Attorney and the Los Angeles Police Department. The family looks forward to the day that justice can be served."

The search warrant affidavit also revealed Murray's version of the events leading up to the star's death.

Murray claims he had been treating the singer for insomnia for six weeks before he died, administering 50 milligrams of Propofol every night intravenously.

He told detectives he had been trying to wean the singer off the medication because he feared he was becoming addicted.

In the days leading up to the star's death, Murray claims he started giving him the sedatives Lorazepam and Midazolam instead of Propofol to help him sleep.

On the day Michael died, Murray said the sedative combination failed to work. At 1.30am he gave the star Valium, before increasing the doses of the sedatives.

At 10.40am an exhausted Murray claims he finally gave Michael Propofol, which finally put the star to sleep.

After 10 minutes of "constant monitoring" Murray claims he left the room to use the toilet, taking approximately two minutes.

When he returned, Michael was not breathing, and he started to administer CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation).

Over an hour later, at 12.21pm, a member of Michael's security staff called 911.

Murray also told detectives he was not the first doctor to give Michael Propofol, but claims the singer refused to tell him which other physicians were treating him and what drugs they were prescribing.

Police are currently investigating Murray, as well as Dr. Arnold Klein, Dr. Allan Metzger and Dr. David Adams, all of whom have links to the late singer.

Murray's attorney Edward Chernoff has released a statement to "set the record straight" over what his client "did or did not say" to police.

Chernoff said: "Much of what was in the search warrant affidavit is factual. However, unfortunately, much is police theory.

"Most egregiously, the timeline reported by law enforcement was not obtained through interviews with Dr. Murray, as was implied by the affidavit.

"Dr. Murray simply never told investigators that he found Michael Jackson at 11.00 am not breathing. He also never said that he waited a mere ten minutes before leaving to make several phone calls. In fact, Dr. Murray never said that he left Michael Jackson's room to make phone calls at all."

Chernoff did not deny Murray had given Michael Valium, Lorazepam, Midazolam and Propofol on the morning the singer died.