Michael Jackson was pronounced dead at 2.26pm yesterday (25.06.09), it has been confirmed.

The 50-year-old musical legend - who is survived by three children, Prince Michael, 12, Paris, 11 and seven-year-old Prince Michael II - suffered a suspected cardiac arrest at his home and was rushed to Los Angeles' UCLA Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead.

Michael's manager Frank DiLeo said: "It's a very sad day for all of us. It's such a terrible shame. He was my friend. The kids are very upset, but they are fine."

Michael's mother Katherine is currently looking after the star's three children.

An emergency 911 call was made at 12.30pm from Michael's home, and Michael had no pulse when medics arrived on the scene. He was in a coma when he arrived at hospital.

A hospital statement said: "His personal physician, who was with him at the time, attempted to resuscitate Jackson, as did paramedics who transferred him.

"A team of doctors including emergency physicians and cardiologists attempted to resuscitate for a period of more than one hour but were unsuccessful."

Michael's body has been flown to the Los Angeles County Coroner's Office, where an autopsy will be performed today (26.06.09).

It has been claimed there will be an official investigation into the singer's death, although the Los Angeles Police Department has stressed there is no evidence of criminal wrongdoing.

The Los Angeles Times newspaper reports police will speak to Michael's relatives, friends and doctors in an effort to uncover what happened.

Despite there being no official confirmation on Michael's cause of death, it has been suggested medication Michael - who was believed to have been battling skin cancer - was taking could have contributed.

The star had been visiting a Beverly Hills medical centre frequently in recent weeks, although the reason is unknown.

It has been claimed Michael was taking a cocktail of up to seven prescription drugs, including anti-anxiety drugs Xanax, Zoloft and painkiller Demerol, prompting speculation he may have suffered an accidental overdose, causing respiratory failure and cardiac arrest.

Brian Oxman, who has been the Jackson family's attorney, said: "I have warned of the use of medications, in Michael's case I said that if this is going to be the result of the tragedy that we're now seeing that I was going to speak up loud and clear."

Speaking from the hospital, Brian said: "Inside it was chaotic for a time and then it was absolute silence. And no one will say what has happened, I've been asked not to say what has happened. I only know that I am heartbroken.

"This was something which I feared and something which I warned about."

A source said: "The sense of a possible drug overdose is lingering. They're sending him in for an autopsy."

Michael had passed a medical exam proving he was fit to perform ahead of his comeback shows in London which were due to start next month.