Having witnessed firsthand the poverty in Haiti before the earthquake, it is not hard to imagine the struggles the Haitian people have to endure in its aftermath. As the dust has settled, solar powered electricity has emerged as a viable alternative to kerosene lanterns and is being widely deployed in Haiti as the rebuilding efforts progress.

Hundreds of solar companies and community groups have donated solar products to Haiti but the effort has been slow when compared to the need. Charitable organizations and small businesses are working to provide low cost basic light, mobile phone chargers and radios to the Haitian community which can be charged by small portable solar panels. Something as simple as a solar cell phone charger and light with rechargeable batteries power by solar can make a difference.

We believe that electricity in Haiti and the developing world is a fundamental human right. Solar is helping to lift families out of poverty by providing clean safe lighting so children can read at night in a non-polluting kerosene free home environment safe from open flames creating micro-enterprises.

One such micro-enterprise is Haitian businessman Alex George. In the aftermath of the earthquake that devastated his country Alex Georges recalls both the darkness and the light writies Marianne Lavelle in an article from National Geographic. From the Port-au-Prince house where he had been meeting with his business partner, Georges remembers stumbling into chaos: human suffering and a cloud of dust so thick that he could not see across the street.

But he also saw that at night, even though the shaken city had no electricity, there were bright islands of light beneath the solar powered battery street lamps that his company had installed at two sports fields. People were drawn to the glow of the solar lights and began to set up camps there.

Georges believes that solar energy can do more than provide temporary refuge for Haitians; he thinks it can be a permanent boon to the impoverished Caribbean nation.

As the co-founder of Energies Renouvelables, a three-year-old Port-au-Prince business that has manufactured and sold more than 500 LED solar street lights with battery storage in 58 towns and villages throughout the island, Georges is one of a group of advocates and entrepreneurs pushing for greater use of solar, renewable, and other small-scale off-grid solar energy in the rebuilding of Haiti.

Before the earthquake, Haiti had one of the lowest rates of electricity access in the world, with only 12.5 percent of its population of nine million connected to the grid. Those who had money relied on small diesel fuel generators for electricity. The cost of diesel spiked after the earthquake, putting that form of power generation even further out of reach for most Haitians.

¡°Why saddle people with the variable costs and operating costs of diesel fuel?¡± asks Jigar Shah, chief executive of the Carbon War Room, the climate change advocacy organization founded by Virgin Atlantic billionaire Richard Branson. His group has calculated that solar and other small power systems could be installed throughout Haiti at a cost of $400 million, a fraction of the $11.5 billion in rebuilding funds that United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon has called for over the next decade.

Vijay Modi, an energy systems expert at Columbia University¡¯s Earth Institute, which works to advance sustainable development, says that portable solar and renewables can, indeed, play an immediate role in meeting the emergency electricity needs of Haiti. But Haiti also has urgent energy needs for cooking, in addition to the lighting and cell phone charging solutions that solar can provide.

Solar renewable energy advocates working on the ground in Haiti agree that more efficient use of wood and charcoal will continue to be used in the short term for cooking, although biochar (charcoal from agricultural waste) could be a more environmentally friendly solution. They also worry about the use of kerosene for lighting in addition to the harmful fumes, the fire hazard is acute in the tent camps where so many Haitians are now living.

The tent camps, in fact, have turned to portable solar energy for yet another pressing need security. Soon after the quake, renewable energy access specialist Richenda Van Leeuwen, of Washington, D.C., organized a donation by the Good Energies Foundation of 6,500 solar light systems that can be used now in tents and later transferred to new homes.