As Haitians scramble to get their lives back in order, many observers are wondering what has happened to the country's government, which has had an unusually low profile since the Jan. 12 earthquake.

"We have a vacuum of government," Mich¨¨le Pierre-Louis told The New York Times. The 62-year-old Pierre-Louis was Haiti's prime minister for just over a year, until November 2009 when she was ousted by the country's Senate in a power play.

"The big question," she says, "is 'Who's in charge?' We don't feel as though there is someone organizing all this."
Haitian President Rene Preval at an impromptu press conference with U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in Port-au-Prince on Jan. 16, 2010, four days after the earthquake. (Associated Press)Haitian President Rene Preval at an impromptu press conference with U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in Port-au-Prince on Jan. 16, 2010, four days after the earthquake. (Associated Press)

Since the earthquake, Ren¨¦ Pr¨¦val, Haiti's president, has "been largely invisible to his countrymen," Tracy Wilkinson reported in The Los Angeles Times.

Preval has met with some foreign leaders and spoken with the international press but, 10 days on, he has yet to address the Haitian people, an absence that seems to have left many if not most Haitians wondering if there is a government at all.
An earthquake victim

Of course the government was hard hit by the destruction. Many of its offices and Belle ¨¦poque-style buildings are ruined. Five ministry headquarters were completely destroyed.

Here's how Michel Chancy, the Haitian official coordinating relief, described that situation last week. "The palace fell," he told the New York Times.

"Ministries fell. And not only that, the homes of many ministers fell. The police were not coming to work. Relief agencies collapsed. The UN collapsed. It was hard to get ourselves in a place where we could help others."

The families of people in government suffered as well. Cabinet ministers lost close family members and homes. At least two senators died.

Still the earthquake's havoc is only part of the story. For the other part ¡ª the state of the government before 4:53 p.m. on January 12 ¡ª we should probably start with Ren¨¦ Pr¨¦val's relationship with his charismatic and controversial predecessor Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

